content/algebra-fields-galois/finite-field-galois-cyclic.md, before:

---
title: "Finite-Field Extensions are Cyclic Galois"
description: "F_{q^n}/F_q is Galois with cyclic group generated by Frobenius x↦x^q."
---

**Theorem.**  
Let \(q=p^m\) be a prime power. For each \(n\ge 1\), the extension
\[
\mathbb{F}_{q^n}/\mathbb{F}_q
\]
is a finite {{< knowl id="galois-extension" text="Galois extension" >}}. Its Galois group is cyclic of order \(n\), generated by the Frobenius automorphism
\[
\varphi_q:\mathbb{F}_{q^n}\to\mathbb{F}_{q^n},\qquad \varphi_q(x)=x^q,
\]
which is the \(m\)-th iterate of the {{< knowl id="frobenius-endomorphism" text="p-Frobenius" >}}.

**Examples.**
1. \(\mathrm{Gal}(\mathbb{F}_{q^2}/\mathbb{F}_q)\cong C_2\), generated by \(x\mapsto x^q\).
2. \(\mathrm{Gal}(\mathbb{F}_{2^6}/\mathbb{F}_{2^2})\) has order \(3\), generated by \(x\mapsto x^{4}\).
3. Subfields of \(\mathbb{F}_{q^n}\) correspond to divisors of \(n\) via {{< knowl id="galois-correspondence" text="Galois correspondence" >}}.

**Related.** {{< knowl id="finite-field-galois-group-cyclic" text="finite-field Galois group over F_p" >}}, {{< knowl id="finite-field-existence-uniqueness" text="existence/uniqueness of F_q" >}}.

Commit message:

ton of additions and fixes

content/algebra-fields-galois/finite-field-galois-cyclic.md, after:

---
title: "Finite Field Extensions Are Cyclic Galois"
description: "The extension 𝔽_{p^n}/𝔽_p is Galois with cyclic Galois group generated by Frobenius."
---

Let $p$ be a prime and $q=p^n$ with $n\ge 1$. Let $\mathbb{F}_q$ be a {{< knowl id="finite-field" text="finite field" >}} of order $q$ (see {{< knowl id="finite-field-existence" text="existence of finite fields" >}}). Consider the {{< knowl id="field-extension" text="field extension" >}} $\mathbb{F}_q/\mathbb{F}_p$.

Write $\mathrm{Fr}_p:\mathbb{F}_q\to\mathbb{F}_q$ for the {{< knowl id="frobenius-endomorphism" text="Frobenius map" >}} $\mathrm{Fr}_p(x)=x^p$.

**Theorem (cyclic Galois group of a finite field).**  
The extension $\mathbb{F}_q/\mathbb{F}_p$ is a finite {{< knowl id="galois-extension" text="Galois extension" >}}. Its {{< knowl id="galois-group" text="Galois group" >}} is cyclic of order $n$ and is generated by Frobenius:
\[
\mathrm{Gal}(\mathbb{F}_q/\mathbb{F}_p)=\langle \mathrm{Fr}_p\rangle,\qquad |\mathrm{Gal}(\mathbb{F}_q/\mathbb{F}_p)|=n.
\]
Equivalently, $\mathrm{Fr}_p^n=\mathrm{id}$ on $\mathbb{F}_q$ and the smallest positive integer $m$ with $\mathrm{Fr}_p^m=\mathrm{id}$ is $m=n$. In particular, by {{< knowl id="galois-degree-equals-group-order" text="degree = group order" >}} one has $[\mathbb{F}_q:\mathbb{F}_p]=n$.

More generally, if $\mathbb{F}_{p^m}\subseteq \mathbb{F}_{p^n}$ (so $m\mid n$), then $\mathbb{F}_{p^n}/\mathbb{F}_{p^m}$ is Galois with cyclic group generated by $x\mapsto x^{p^m}$, and the {{< knowl id="fixed-field" text="fixed field" >}} of $\langle \mathrm{Fr}_p^m\rangle$ is exactly $\mathbb{F}_{p^m}$ (compare the {{< knowl id="galois-correspondence" text="Galois correspondence" >}}).

### Examples
1. **$\mathbb{F}_4/\mathbb{F}_2$ (order 2 group).**  
   Realize $\mathbb{F}_4=\mathbb{F}_2(\alpha)$ with $\alpha^2+\alpha+1=0$, i.e. $\mathbb{F}_4\cong \mathbb{F}_2[t]/(t^2+t+1)$. Then Frobenius is $x\mapsto x^2$. It fixes $\mathbb{F}_2$ and sends
   \[
   \alpha \longmapsto \alpha^2 = \alpha+1,
   \]
   which is nontrivial; hence $\mathrm{Gal}(\mathbb{F}_4/\mathbb{F}_2)=\{ \mathrm{id},\, \mathrm{Fr}_2\}$ is cyclic of order $2$.

2. **$\mathbb{F}_9/\mathbb{F}_3$ (order 2 group, explicit action).**  
   Take $\mathbb{F}_9=\mathbb{F}_3(\beta)$ with $\beta^2+1=0$ (irreducible over $\mathbb{F}_3$), so $\beta^2=-1=2$. Frobenius is $x\mapsto x^3$, and
   \[
   \beta \longmapsto \beta^3=\beta\cdot \beta^2 = 2\beta.
   \]
   Applying Frobenius twice sends $\beta\mapsto (2\beta)^3=8\beta^3\equiv 2\cdot(2\beta)=4\beta\equiv \beta$ mod $3$, so the Frobenius automorphism has order $2$, as predicted.

3. **Subfields in $\mathbb{F}_{p^6}$.**  
   The group $\mathrm{Gal}(\mathbb{F}_{p^6}/\mathbb{F}_p)$ is cyclic of order $6$ generated by $\mathrm{Fr}_p$. The subgroup $\langle \mathrm{Fr}_p^2\rangle$ has order $3$, and its fixed field is the unique intermediate field of size $p^2$, namely $\mathbb{F}_{p^2}\subset \mathbb{F}_{p^6}$.
