content/algebra-fields-galois/splitting-field-uniqueness.md, before:

---
title: "Uniqueness of Splitting Fields"
description: "Any two splitting fields of the same polynomial over K are K-isomorphic."
---

**Theorem (Uniqueness).**  
Let \(f\in K[x]\) be a nonzero polynomial and let \(L\) and \(L'\) be splitting fields of \(f\) over \(K\). Then there exists a \(K\)-isomorphism
\[
\phi: L \xrightarrow{\ \sim\ } L'
\]
(i.e., an isomorphism fixing \(K\) pointwise). The isomorphism is generally not unique.

This is the uniqueness part of {{< knowl id="splitting-field-existence-uniqueness" text="splitting field existence/uniqueness" >}}.

**Examples.**
1. If \(L=\mathbb{Q}(\sqrt2)\) and \(L'=\mathbb{Q}(\alpha)\) where \(\alpha^2=2\), then \(\alpha=\pm\sqrt2\) and the map \(\sqrt2\mapsto \alpha\) gives a \(\mathbb{Q}\)-isomorphism \(L\cong_{\mathbb{Q}} L'\).
2. For \(f=x^2+x+1\) over \(\mathbb{F}_2\), any two splitting fields are isomorphic to \(\mathbb{F}_4\).
3. For separable irreducible \(f\), the splitting field is characterized (up to \(K\)-isomorphism) by “adjoin all roots.”

**Related.** {{< knowl id="field-isomorphism" text="field isomorphisms" >}}, {{< knowl id="normality-splitting-field" text="splitting fields and normality" >}}.

Commit message:

ton of additions and fixes

content/algebra-fields-galois/splitting-field-uniqueness.md, after:

---
title: "Uniqueness of splitting fields"
description: "Splitting fields are unique up to base-field isomorphism (and unique inside a fixed algebraic closure)."
---

Let \(K\) be a {{< knowl id="field" section="algebra-rings" text="field" >}} and let \(S\subseteq K[x]\) be a set of polynomials. Suppose \(L\) and \(L'\) are {{< knowl id="splitting-field" text="splitting fields" >}} of \(S\) over \(K\).

**Theorem (uniqueness up to \(K\)-isomorphism).**
There exists a \(K\)-{{< knowl id="field-embedding" text="embedding" >}} \(\varphi:L\to L'\) whose image is all of \(L'\); in particular, \(\varphi\) is an isomorphism of fields fixing \(K\) pointwise. Thus splitting fields of the same data are unique up to \(K\)-isomorphism.

A common strengthening: if one fixes an {{< knowl id="algebraic-closure" text="algebraic closure" >}} \(\overline K\) and realizes both \(L\) and \(L'\) as subfields of \(\overline K\) generated by all roots of \(S\), then \(L=L'\) as subfields of \(\overline K\). This is the “uniqueness inside a fixed closure” version (compare {{< knowl id="splitting-field-existence-uniqueness" text="existence and uniqueness of splitting fields" >}}).

### Examples

1. **Choice of square root does not matter.**  
   Over \(K=\mathbb{Q}\), the polynomial \(x^2-2\) has roots \(\pm\sqrt2\). The splitting field generated by \(\sqrt2\) is \(\mathbb{Q}(\sqrt2)\), and the splitting field generated by \(-\sqrt2\) is the same field. The \(K\)-automorphism \(\sqrt2\mapsto -\sqrt2\) exhibits the uniqueness.

2. **Cubic splitting fields.**  
   For \(f=x^3-2\in\mathbb{Q}[x]\), any splitting field over \(\mathbb{Q}\) is \(K\)-isomorphic to \(\mathbb{Q}(\sqrt[3]{2},\zeta_3)\), even if one starts by adjoining a different real cube root or different primitive cube root of unity. This matches the fact that a normal extension is characterized as a splitting field (see {{< knowl id="normality-splitting-field" text="normality and splitting fields" >}}).

3. **Finite fields.**  
   Any two fields of size \(p^n\) are isomorphic (see {{< knowl id="finite-field-existence-uniqueness" text="existence and uniqueness of finite fields" >}}). In particular, if \(L\) is the splitting field over \(\mathbb{F}_p\) of an irreducible degree-\(n\) polynomial, then \(L\cong \mathbb{F}_{p^n}\) regardless of which irreducible polynomial one starts with.
